---
title: UNC-CH AAUP condemns the targeting of international students and scholars
---

The UNC-CH chapter of the AAUP strongly and unequivocally condemns the
targeting of international students and scholars.

In light of the April 8 [revocation of six UNC student visas][1], we
call on UNC-CH to take concrete steps to support students and scholars
at risk. At a moment when the future of higher education and free
speech are in peril, our institution has obligations beyond doing no
harm. If we fail to protect international students and scholars, we
jeopardize the safety and academic freedom of all students and
scholars and the integrity of the university as a whole.

We therefore make the following demands of UNC-CH’s leaders:

1. Maintain enrollment and allow continued study and resource access
   for our international students and scholars whose visas have been
   unjustly revoked.
2. Provide and pay for legal counsel for those students and scholars
   whose visas have been revoked.
3. Work swiftly and affirmatively—through lawsuits, if necessary—to
   stop further termination-without-due-process of legal statuses of
   students and scholars.
4. Allow international students and scholars to continue their
   studies, research, and paid work, including teaching and research
   assistantships and fellowships, remotely.
5. Follow [AAUP’s guidelines for general counsels][2] to protect
   student information.
6. Avoid voluntary cooperation or information-sharing with Immigration
   and Customs Enforcement, other federal agencies charged with
   investigating students’ and scholars’ protected speech, revoking
   visas, and/or facilitating deportations.
7. Provide immediate notification to students and scholars of any
   changes in their legal statuses and share reliable information in a
   timely fashion with all international students and scholars.

[1]: <https://www.newsobserver.com/news/local/education/article303778476.html>
[2]: <https://www.aaup.org/sites/default/files/2025.04.07-AAUP-Letter-to-GCs-corrected.pdf>
