---
title: September 29 Weekly Update
---

### Meet-up at Namu: Tuesday, Oct. 14, 4:30-6:30pm

We're gathering to celebrate our recently promoted and tenured
colleagues—and to raise a glass to our important collective wins:
fighting tenure delays, showing up for students' freedom of speech,
and organizing to defend academic freedom—we have a lot to celebrate!
Join us at [Namu](https://www.namudurham.com/) for conversations and
collegiality, and please invite your UNC colleagues.

### Academic Freedom Resources

We're working on materials to circulate to colleagues about how to
respond to attacks against your academic freedom. If you would like to
help with these materials, contact Abbey Hatcher at
abbeyhatcher@gmail.com. *Hearty thanks to Abbey for your initiative,
hard work, and leadership!*

### Politicizing Accreditation in the South and Beyond, Oct. 6, 7pm

Politicizing Accreditation in the South and Beyond: The Commission for
Public Higher Education. RSVP to the webinar. Oct. 6, 7pm, ET:

<https://us06web.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_QvVm-mfKSbO62JHauJ394Q#/registration>

This webinar will discuss the implications of dropping independent
accreditation systems for the state controlled Commission for Public
Higher Education (CPHE). Although its planning document includes some
seemingly harmless language, the CPHE is dominated by powerful
conservative politicians like Florida Governor Ron DeSantis who likely
want to use it to extend their control of the State University System
of Florida, the Texas A&M University System, the University System of
Georgia, the University of North Carolina System, the University of
South Carolina system, the University of Tennessee System, and other
higher education systems in the south and beyond. This webinar will
explore the historic importance of independent accreditation systems
for maintaining professional norms and standards for public higher
education and will examine the threats a politicized accreditation
system poses to academic freedom, faculty voice in curriculum, and
shared governance.

### CITAP First Amendment Event at UNC, Oct. 8, 2:45-3:45pm

CITAP First Amendment Event at UNC, Oct. 8, 2:45-3:45pm, Carroll Hall:

<https://medialaw.unc.edu/events/citap1a_day_2025/>

In collaboration with the [What’s at
Stake](https://www.onthestakes.com/) project, join this timely
discussion on the role of First Amendment freedoms in protecting
democracy.  The United States is backsliding into what political
scientists call “electoral autocracy,” where elections are held but
there is not free and fair competition. The President and his party
are weaponizing the state to weaken the political opposition and the
journalism outlets, media, platforms, and universities that can hold
them accountable, including through elections. At such a moment, the
First Amendment freedom to produce information and knowledge in the
public interest that safeguards democratic elections, processes, and
norms is crucial. This panel will provide a clear-eyed, research-based
analysis of what is at stake and argue for the right, and
responsibility, of media and platforms to serve as democratic
gatekeepers and hold elected leaders accountable for eroding checks on
their power. At a time when many university administrators and faculty
would rather talk about the hypothetical threats of AI than the wolves
at the door, panelists will detail the urgency of the existential
threats to our shared democratic life, the violent consequences of
inaction such as during the attempted coup on January 6th, and the
ways that journalism, platforms, and universities must rise to meet
the moment and fulfill their obligation of serving the public
interest.

Panelists:

* Meredith D. Clark, Associate Professor of Race and Political
  Communication at UNC School of Journalism and Media; Co-Principal
  Investigator, UNC Center for Information, Technology, and Public
  Life
* Shannon C. McGregor, Associate Professor at UNC School of Journalism
  and Media; Co-Principal Investigator, UNC Center for Information,
  Technology, and Public Life
* Daniel Kreiss, Edgar Thomas Cato Distinguished Professor at UNC
  School of Journalism and Media; Faculty Director, Co-Principal
  Investigator, UNC Center for Information, Technology, and Public
  Life
* Anika Collier Navaroli, Assistant Professor of Professional Practice
  at Columbia Journalism School; Reporting Fellow at Tech Policy Press

### Right to Light: A Rally in Support of Higher Education, Oct. 24, 2–4pm

Right to Light: A Rally in Support of Higher Education, Chapel Hill,
October 24 2-4pm, The Plaza, 140 W. Franklin, CH, NC.

Keynote speaker: Professor Gene Nichol, a distinguished professor of
law, commentator, and author of several books on North Carolina
politics, poverty, race, religion, and democracy. He was director of
the UNC Poverty Center (2008-2015) until it was closed by the Board of
Governors.

You can [register to
attend](https://www.mobilize.us/mobilize/event/840735/) here, and if
you are interested in speaking briefly at the rally or volunteering to
help, or if you would like more information, contact Megan Winget at
megan.winget@gmail.com.

### Chapter Organizing

We're identifying chapter liaisons for departments and academic
units. If you'd like to volunteer, contact Erik Gellman at
esgellman@gmail.com.

If you would like to help with these weekly updates or help maintain
and update our chapter's website and social media, please contact
Michael Palm at mwpalm@gmail.com.

And everyone is welcome to join our weekly working meetings Fridays
from Noon-1pm, even if just to say hi and see what's going on.

Note that we are using a new link for these meetings!

<https://unc.zoom.us/j/98472343156?pwd=WLsCiCkQcrOEsEmZwRri5p2S6PaaZR.1>

* Meeting ID: 984 7234 3156
* Passcode: 305015

### Meet our New Organizers!

The NC AAUP has hired an organizer, Audrey Berlowitz
(augustbaum56@gmail.com), and the national AAUP has assigned two
organizers, Brian Allen (ballen@aaup.org) and Jawuanna McAlister
(jmcallister@aaup.org), to work with NC chapters. They've been a big
help this Fall. Look out for them at future events.

Jawuanna McAllister (she/her) has roots in North and South Carolina
and now resides in Knightdale, NC. Before joining the AAUP in August,
she was a graduate worker at Cornell University, where she earned her
M.S. in Molecular Biology and Genetics and served as a lead organizer,
steward, and bargaining committee member during Cornell Graduate
Students United's (CGSU-UE Local 300) fight for a first contract. She
was also a member of the Cornell Chapter of the AAUP and the Cornell
Collective for Justice in Palestine.
