---
title: Weekly Update October 27 2025
---

### BSM Town Hall

#### Monday 10/27 6pm, Hitchcock Multipurpose Room, Stone Center

The Black Student Movement will be hosting a Town Hall on Monday,
October 27th, at 6:00 PM in the Hitchcock Room of the Stone
Center. The objective of this event is to strengthen and unify the
Black community at Carolina. During the Town Hall, we will discuss
matters related to Upendo Lounge, clarify any confusion, and answer
any questions students, staff, and alumni may have. We are inviting
all Black organizations, faculty, and alumni to join us in this
important conversation. This space was not only taken from BSM as an
organization but from us collectively as a community. So, we're
looking for your support, presence, and engagement as we work together
to reclaim and restore it.

### Worker Health Care Plan Teach-In

#### Tuesday 10/28 6pm

UE 150 is hosting a virtual teach-in on the current State Health Plan
and rising costs in NC. [RSVP
here.](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeqpuzsTvFB9QcOOKDLqIcGHdmwvfhgjHEtZy6MF1Bwq5wsnQ/viewform?link_id=3&can_id=73685a8fc37557b2f9414e42b1d80148&source=email-durham-endorsements-duke-founders-day-rally-more-2&email_referrer=email_2927359&email_subject=save-the-date-oct-28-aetna-exposed-teach-in-campaign-launch-worker-health-not-corporate-wealth)

### AAUP Webinar in support of the upcoming 11/7 Day of Action

#### Tuesday 10/28 5-6pm

AAUP members, check your email for a link to register.

### Day of Action for Higher Ed!

#### Friday 11/7 1:15pm, Polk Place

Join Sunrise UNC and other campus groups! As students organize for
educational access and affordability, the freedom to learn, campus
safety, and a better future, the AFT and AUUP along with cross-sector
higher education unions are standing shoulder to shoulder in
solidarity.

### Academic Freedom at the next Faculty Council meeting

#### Friday 11/7 3-5pm, Kerr Hall

Chapter members will present on academic freedom—what it means, its
history, and the urgent need to protect it today—at the next Faculty
Council Meeting, Friday, November 7, from 3-5pm, 1001 Kerr Hall. Join
us!

### Report on UNC Audit

#### Thursday 11/13 5:30-8pm, Carr Hall

Howard Bunsis will share the findings from his independent audit of
UNC. Our chapter secured a grant from the NC AAUP to help fund this
audit. Howard will report for an hour, followed by 90 minutes
of Q&A. Co-sponsored by UE150 and TransparUNCy.

### 3 petitions to sign rejecting Trump Loyalty Oaths for Higher Ed

* From [UNC students](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdX_lzLLjYBW1UWQdTwJj-iCFEnNSwNZSnV1an2XPkHLGDGqA/viewform)
* From the [Coalition for Carolina](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScHFN2zZ2EYoyxAzJFLvDBed53P0hVBLxhMJICYDtQwNdWGSQ/viewform)
* From [a coalition of progressive groups including the national AAUP](https://actionnetwork.org/petitions/university-administrations-reject-trumps-loyalty-oath-compacts/)

Our chapter voted to collectively endorse this one, but you can also
sign as an individual.

### DTH Faculty Free Speech Survey

[Fill out the DTH Faculty Free Speech Survey!](https://www.dailytarheel.com/article/22332c16-e2e4-4e18-8fcb-88b9cb5de402)

### Reclaim the Narrative: Higher Ed for the Common Good

### Wednesday 10/29, 2-4pm

The AAUP, Stand Together, and PEN America invite you to join [Reclaim
the Narrative: Higher Ed for the Common
Good](https://click.actionnetwork.org/ss/c/u001.v2UrIOJHHKkg0Pk-aGvhy_TtrWBBAnh9vPhfXW55SOYJbs4UkOgVYzt8AGOsvCuM8gZJ0RVux7CrOgubSYvMNTk4A9IkZUOET957R2-K-tZbpVt8n-6NaUCVJSxnQVepEtSFzgKI-XKUphyKbiFmrwb7AGIS05vNUf1syOpOTsvGg8tNXq9hPE0T6RcIXbj95Uu4mVEmxfbjvPCrt0gV329B84gEZHHlJLRYj3Xvre0GatTmgQwy0ttXI4JF3j3RnJu8CNONA5oQUYY6EtgELYCJkEBruraEuZYSX8rE46Fi8zUr-ayklotycwaN7w4OrvDA4tjK23WedvRkR4SbPZB0W0YTMopfp26kKFs_GyYAc3ST4_vjvvEt9p5Tl2pP1Z9xp97tiZKaYmYAFeD4Wg/4kx/wlJARCmUR0qLtyyOuFWmgw/h1/h001.82YkajKlFdDdTm8lywZGEdLlOM3WD0GKb-4yv8_PHVs),
a two-hour training webinar will equip you with practical tools to
tell your story and amplify the value of higher education in public
life.

Higher education is under coordinated attack, from funding cuts and
DEI bans to assaults on tenure, free speech, and the safety of
international scholars and students. Our individual stories of how our
work in higher education makes a difference are the most powerful
antidote to the misinformation campaign against higher
education. Truth is resistance.  Every story we can share with the
public pushes back against false narratives that paint higher ed as
elitist and broken.

In this training, you'll learn how to:

* Write powerful op-eds and letters to the editor
* Use social media to reach wider audiences
* Prepare for media interviews with confidence
* Adapt these materials to host Reclaim the Narrative workshops on
  your own campus

AAUP members can [register
here](https://click.actionnetwork.org/ss/c/u001.v2UrIOJHHKkg0Pk-aGvhy_TtrWBBAnh9vPhfXW55SOYJbs4UkOgVYzt8AGOsvCuM8gZJ0RVux7CrOgubSYvMNc6SfTRYzf9yRwT_fRjDogACze-wE9R7sFohvLW3fXA8kqRG5KM5znkvPSgjdzRKXUFzaxd8RRi0Vig27Ke3OiNxwVKhBRQmPbN-PKecWICGrgQxVgY70GqwoLh_EOgWJrPV-b_MvnXHzKIi5DHT1_oCGlKBoetZ6aYvMqUgT0FJSvSfFBZa7cyDc8g0XCv-HG-WuO6CjO_iKXXBrKaa6gDKFu71gY7OESw9GsDEMU3DhHorgM2bjeGPl2tvv0z24mxcJBQlsRtv6yJ9SRhD2ck0rB9Lt9bi5GMgJA6oGhtTnFpvzMLZusk-9QCC3D070g/4kx/wlJARCmUR0qLtyyOuFWmgw/h2/h001.pTWo6PN5UepanP5AqlkJrt-pct9T6OaIYU8uUcpXTyA)
to attend. Together, we can reclaim the story of higher education as a
public good essential to democracy.

### Chapter Organizing

We\'re identifying chapter liaisons for departments and academic
units.  If you\'d like to volunteer, contact Erik Gellman at
[esgellman@gmail.com](mailto:esgellman@gmail.com).

If you would like to help with these weekly updates or help maintain
and update our chapter's website and social media, please contact
Michael Palm at [mwpalm@gmail.com](http://gmail.com/).

And everyone is welcome to join our **weekly working meetings Fridays
from Noon-1pm**, even if just to say hi and see what's going on:

<https://us06web.zoom.us/j/89195114865?pwd=qf2kY5jKF6utphBBKn4ghkszHa6lLT.1>
