---
title: Weekly Update October 6 2025
---

### Congrats to our colleague Dwayne Dixon on returning to the classroom!

Read [Professor Dixon’s
statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eLrb98o3HLmJCvqymd7aW6bzGBPXyJHtNcxKBSsMyjk/edit?tab=t.0)
and [our statement calling for his
reinstatement](https://unc-ch-aaup.org/assets/unc-ch-aaup-statement-on-dwayne-dixon.pdf).

### AAUP Press Conference @ UNC: Wednesday, Oct. 8, 11am

On Wednesday, October 8 at 11am, we will gather outside UNC’s South
Building, where AAUP officers along with UNC students will speak to
the press, make some announcements, and then walk to New West with
Professor Dwayne Dixon and his students. They’ll be returning to class
for the first time since September 29, when Professor Dixon was
[wrongfully and harmfully placed on administrative
leave](https://www.dailytarheel.com/article/2025/10/breaking-university-dwayne-dixon-reinstated). On
Friday, October 3, the administration [finally reinstated
Dixon](https://ncnewsline.com/2025/10/03/unc-professor-dwayne-dixon-reinstated-after-suspension-over-anti-fascist-ties/)
after significant pressure from the community, including AAUP NC,
AAUP-Chapel Hill, UNC’s YDSA, UE-150, the ACLU of NC, and many of
Dixon’s admiring colleagues and students.

We’ll be cheering their return but also using this moment to lay out,
for faculty and the public, the many issues caused by UNC-Chapel
Hill’s administration’s egregious attacks on faculty and students’
academic freedom and First Amendment rights—not just last week’s
unnecessary and painful disruption of the fall semester for 300+
students, but also the [harmful tenure vote delay for 33 faculty
members at UNC in
May](https://www.aaup.org/news/aaup-president-calls-explanation-unc-chapel-hill-tenure-delay)
and the [illegal removal and destruction of a student-created,
faculty-approved pro-Palestinian mural in
August](https://www.dailytarheel.com/article/2025/08/university-hanes-palestinian-art-exhibit-covered-up).

### Meet-up at Namu: Tuesday, Oct. 14, 4:30–6:30pm

We’re gathering to celebrate our recently promoted and tenured
colleagues—and to raise a glass to our important collective wins:
fighting tenure delays, showing up for students’ freedom of speech,
and organizing to defend academic freedom—we have a lot to celebrate!
Join us at [Namu](https://www.namudurham.com/) for conversations and
collegiality, and please invite your UNC colleagues.

### Academic Freedom Resources

Please use [this
form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScNLxqqVUcNQ8XIU7tRk2iAZcNX2GlNr_NZBcJGwTanrPnK0g/viewform)
to report any incidents of attacks on academic freedom or harassment
of academic workers since August 2025. This form is confidential and
will only be seen by officers and organizers for the NC AAUP.

### Conversation with Former Provost Chris Clemens, Wednesday, Oct. 8, 2pm

The Administration of Free Speech: A TransparUNCy Conversation with
Former Provost Chris Clemens, Wednesday, Oct. 8, 2pm, Carroll Hall.

For this year’s First Amendment Day, TransparUNCy will be joined by
former Provost Chris Clemens for a discussion about some of the most
contentious conflicts in higher education and their implications for
free speech. How do debates around DEI, “institutional neutrality,”
student protest, tenure, and the ongoing politicization of university
governance affect the conditions for free speech on our campus?

Follow TransparUNCy here: <https://uncaffirmativeactioncoalition.substack.com/>

### CITAP First Amendment Event at UNC, Wednesday, Oct. 8, 2:45–3:45pm

CITAP First Amendment Event at UNC, Wednesday, Oct. 8, 2:45–3:45pm, Carroll Hall

<https://medialaw.unc.edu/events/citap1a_day_2025/>

In collaboration with the What’s at Stake project
<https://www.onthestakes.com/>, join this timely discussion on the
role of First Amendment freedoms in protecting democracy.

The United States is backsliding into what political scientists call
“electoral autocracy,” where elections are held but there is not free
and fair competition. The President and his party are weaponizing the
state to weaken the political opposition and the journalism outlets,
media, platforms, and universities that can hold them accountable,
including through elections. At such a moment, the First Amendment
freedom to produce information and knowledge in the public interest
that safeguards democratic elections, processes, and norms is
crucial. This panel will provide a clear-eyed, research-based analysis
of what is at stake and argue for the right—and responsibility—of
media and platforms to serve as democratic gatekeepers and hold
elected leaders accountable for eroding checks on their power. At a
time when many university administrators and faculty would rather talk
about the hypothetical threats of AI than the wolves at the door,
panelists will detail the urgency of the existential threats to our
shared democratic life, the violent consequences of inaction such as
during the attempted coup on January 6th, and the ways that
journalism, platforms, and universities must rise to meet the moment
and fulfill their obligation of serving the public interest.

Panelists:

- Meredith D. Clark <https://hussman.unc.edu/people/meredith-d-clark>,
  Associate Professor of Race and Political Communication at UNC
  School of Journalism and Media; Co-Principal Investigator, UNC
  Center for Information, Technology, and Public Life
- Shannon C. McGregor
  <https://hussman.unc.edu/people/shannon-c-mcgregor>, Associate
  Professor at UNC School of Journalism and Media; Co-Principal
  Investigator, UNC Center for Information, Technology, and Public
  Life
- Daniel Kreiss <https://hussman.unc.edu/people/daniel-kreiss>, Edgar
  Thomas Cato Distinguished Professor at UNC School of Journalism and
  Media; Faculty Director, Co-Principal Investigator, UNC Center for
  Information, Technology, and Public Life
- Anika Collier Navaroli <https://www.anikacolliernavaroli.com/>,
  Assistant Professor of Professional Practice at Columbia Journalism
  School; Reporting Fellow at Tech Policy Press

### Rally in Support of Higher Education, Oct. 24, 2–4pm

Right to Light: A Rally in Support of Higher Education, Chapel Hill,
Oct. 24 2–4pm, The Plaza, 140 W. Franklin, Chapel Hill, NC.

Keynote speaker: Professor Gene Nichol
<https://law.unc.edu/people/gene-r-nichol/>, a distinguished professor
of law, commentator, and author of several books on North Carolina
politics, poverty, race, religion, and democracy. He was director of
the UNC Poverty Center (2008–2015) until it was closed by the Board of
Governors.

You can register to attend here
<https://www.mobilize.us/mobilize/event/840735/>.

### Chapter Organizing

We’re identifying chapter liaisons for departments and academic
units. If you’d like to volunteer, contact Erik Gellman at
<esgellman@gmail.com>.

If you would like to help with these weekly updates or help maintain
and update our chapter’s website and social media, please contact
Michael Palm at <mwpalm@gmail.com>.

And everyone is welcome to join our *weekly working meetings Fridays
from Noon–1pm*, even if just to say hi and see what’s going on.

*Note that we are using a new link for these meetings!*

<https://unc.zoom.us/j/98472343156?pwd=WLsCiCkQcrOEsEmZwRri5p2S6PaaZR.1>

Meeting ID: 984 7234 3156

Passcode: 305015
