---
title: September 22 Weekly Update
---

### Faculty First Responders Resources

Last week we had an informative workshop with Heather from Faculty
First Responders. See below for some resources on digital
security, academic freedom, and building institutional responses to
support colleagues. Please be on the lookout for a digital security
workshop with Heather next semester. *Hearty thanks to Rosie Meisner
for your initiative, hard work and leadership!*

* [Digital Security Basics](/assets/digital-security-basics.pdf)
* [Center for the Defense of Academic Freedom First Aid Kit](/assets/cdaf-first-aid-kit.pdf)
* [Researcher Support Consortium Toolkit for Institutions](/assets/rsc-toolkit.pdf)

### Know Your Rights Resources 

The previous week we co-hosted a Know Your Rights workshop with
UE 150. See below for the slides presented during the session. *Hearty
thanks to Don Nonini for your initiative, hard work and leadership!*

* [Know Your Rights! Fourth Amendment Training](/assets/know-your-rights-training.pdf)

### Academic Freedom Resources 

See below for a 2-page flyer about academic freedom. We're working on
additional materials to circulate to colleagues about how to respond
to attacks against your academic freedom. If you would like to help
with these materials, contact Abbey Hatcher at
abbeyhatcher@gmail.com. *Hearty thanks to Abbey for your initiative,
hard work, and leadership!*

* [What is Academic Freedom?](/assets/academic-freedom-cheatsheet.pdf)

And stay tuned for more details about an academic freedom hotline that
will be answered by attorneys from Stevens, Martin, Vaughn and Tadych,
North Carolina's leading First Amendment firm, and from their
partners. The hotline will address academic freedom problems and
questions faced by faculty and then help faculty consider their
options, including legal representation. The hotline will be available
to all faculty. Stevens, Martin, Vaughn and Tadych has for many years
staffed a hotline for the North Carolina Press Association and
assisted journalists around the state with First Amendment
violations. We plan to share phone and email information soon.

### Chapter Grant

We secured a grant of $7500 from AAUP National. $4000 of these funds
will complement UE 150's efforts to fund a private audit of the
university. We anticipate that the audit will be completed by the end
of October. Remaining funds will support the legal hotline and member
recruitment efforts. *Hearty thanks to Rosie Meisner for your
initiative, hard work, and leadership!*

### October Meet-Up to Celebrate Our Tenured and Promoted Colleagues!

Fighting tenure delays, showing up for students' freedom of speech,
and organizing to defend academic freedom—we have a lot to celebrate!
We plan to convene at [Namu](https://www.namudurham.com) for
conversations and collegiality in October. Please indicate your
availability in the following form: [October Meet-Up
Availability](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeXACZV8x1DKadLMw_k8vIuCzJ3AdEcljWS7poWrRgjfhQJsg/viewform).

### First Amendment Event at UNC, October 8

2:45-3:45pm, Carroll Hall. Featuring AAUP members. Details at
<https://medialaw.unc.edu/events/citap1a_day_2025/>

### Right to Light Rally, Chapel Hill, October 24

Rally in support of higher education, 2-4pm, The Plaza, 140
W. Franklin, CH, NC.

Keynote speaker: Professor Gene Nichol, a distinguished professor of
law, commentator, and author of several books on North Carolina
politics, poverty, race, religion, and democracy. He was director of
the UNC Poverty Center (2008-2015) until it was closed by the Board of
Governors.

You can [register to
attend](https://www.mobilize.us/mobilize/event/840735/), and if you
are interested in speaking briefly at the rally or helping organize,
or if you would like more information, contact Megan Winget at
megan.winget@gmail.com.

### Chapter Organizing 

We're identifying chapter liaisons for departments and academic
units. If you'd like to volunteer, contact Erik Gellman at
esgellman@gmail.com.

If you would like to help maintain and update our chapter's website
and social media, please contact Michael Palm at mwpalm@gmail.com.

And everyone is welcome to join our weekly working meetings Fridays
from Noon-1pm, even if just to say hi and see what's going on. Email
Don Nonini at dnonini@gmail.com for the link.

### Meet our New Organizers!

The NC AAUP has hired an organizer, Audrey Berlowitz, and the national
AAUP has assigned two organizers, Brian Allen and Jawuanna McAlister,
to work with NC chapters. They've been a big help this Fall. Look out
for them at future events.

Audrey Berlowitz (augustbaum56@gmail.com) has degrees in women's
studies, Continental philosophy, and the politics of higher
education. She became a higher education activist during the 2023-2024
UNCG program cuts induced by the NC board of governor's new austerity
measures. As an AAUP NC organizer, she aims to work with others to
build AAUP membership across chapters while simultaneously building
organizing skills within membership. She is especially interested in
figuring out how to adopt and adapt union power-building strategies to
non-collective bargaining contexts.

Brian Allen (he/him, ballen@aaup.org) is originally from Georgia and
now resides in Queens. He was introduced to the labor movement in 2013
as a Teamster at the Atlanta airport. Before joining AAUP in April, he
worked with several unions, including United Campus Workers, IUE-CWA,
and the Association of Legal Advocates and Attorneys. Most recently,
he was a staff organizer with UAW Local 7902, supporting adjunct
faculty, academic student workers, student health workers, and
resident assistants at NYU and The New School in collective
bargaining.
