---
title: September 15 Weekly Update
---

### Joan Scott WGST Keynote

Joan Scott, WGST 50th Anniversary Keynote, **Thurs, September 18th,
3pm**, Hyde Hall.

Scott is a longtime AAUP stalwart and the author of, among many other
books, *Knowledge, Power, and Academic Freedom* (2019).  See the
[flyer](https://womensstudies.unc.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/1382/2025/08/Updated-50th-Anniversary-Launch-Flyer-768x994.jpg)
for the event.

### Academic Freedom Hotline

Stay tuned for more details about this important resource for
faculty. The hotline will be answered by attorneys from Stevens,
Martin, Vaughn and Tadych, North Carolina's leading First Amendment
firm, and from their partners. The hotline will address academic
freedom problems and questions faced by faculty and then help faculty
consider their options, including legal representation. The hotline
will be available to all faculty. Stevens, Martin, Vaughn and Tadych
has for many years staffed a hotline for the North Carolina Press
Association and assisted journalists around the state with First
Amendment violations. We plan to share phone and email information
soon. Hearty thanks to Tori Ekstrand for your initiative, hard work,
and leadership!

### First Amendment Event at UNC in October

Featuring AAUP members. Details here: [**What’s at Stake?: The First
Amendment Freedom to Protect
Democracy**](https://medialaw.unc.edu/events/citap1a_day_2025/)

### Meet-Up Volunteer Needed

We’d like to host an informal chapter meet up at Namu in October. We
plan to use this event to celebrate our colleagues whose tenure and
promotions were delayed last Spring.

We still need to identify a date, inform Namu, and share information
with the mailing list and colleagues. If you can help, please email
Abbey at abbeyhatcher@gmail.com.

### Academic Freedom Rally in November

We're working with local activists groups who are planning a rally in
November in support of academic freedom. If you'd like to help, email
Megan Winget at megan.winget@gmail.com.

### Good work by UNCC-AAUP

After public pressure from the UNC-Charlotte AAUP, Customs and Border
Patrol withdrew from a career fair on campus. Read about it [at the
Niner
Times](https://www.ninertimes.com/news/u-s-customs-and-border-protection-cancels-unc-charlotte-career-fair-appearance/article_cb94e20f-1fb4-4a09-87ad-feded08f5b61.html)
and read [the chapter’s
op-ed](https://www.ninertimes.com/opinion/letters_to_the_editor/letter-to-the-editor-say-no-to-border-patrol-at-the-career-fair/article_09c2d5de-ef18-4022-baa1-c273f0962421.html).

### Chapter Organizing

We're identifying chapter liaisons for departments and academic
units. If you'd like to volunteer, contact Erik Gellman at
esgellman@gmail.com.

### Two Ways to Help

1. [Volunteer for AAUP Hill Day
9/17-9/18](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSes88ydWS5rHy3q4EY6urix5BAYu1ww5cwh3OylDLA3O2jKJQ/viewform)
2. [Email Senator Tillis and other reps to protect research
   funding](https://actionnetwork.org/letters/title-protect-research-funding)
   (takes 30 seconds)
