---
title: NC AAUP state conference is Saturday, April 5
---

### 2025 Meeting of the North Carolina Conference of the AAUP

#### Winning the Fight for Higher Education in NC

* **Saturday, April 5, 2025, 9:30AM-4:00PM**
* **[Carolina Union](https://map.concept3d.com/?id=111#!m/329333) Room 3409**
* **[RSVP](https://forms.gle/PDAhMTU6fu7TqhZX8) by Friday, March 28**

Right now UNC system schools face an ongoing crisis exacerbated by the
UNC BOG policy on DEI course requirements, as seen in the [NC AAUP
state conference's statement of February 11][1]. We also saw just last
summer a new curricular requirement imposed on all UNC students by
politically appointed Board members. The NIH research overhead funding
crisis, meanwhile, threatens to destroy the financial basis of higher
education, paving the way for widespread job losses (of faculty,
staff, grad workers, and positions well beyond the gates of the
universities), increased workloads and new constraints for those who
do manage to keep their jobs, and greatly diminished education at
increased prices for students who are financially able to continue
their studies. As administrators at public and private institutions
fold their arms and look away, nobody is safe from these deadly
attacks. Our only option is to face them and push back together.

[1]:https://academeblog.org/2025/02/12/statement-of-the-north-carolina-conference-of-the-aaup-on-unc-system-curricular-interference/

On Saturday, April 5, 2025, the annual meeting of the North Carolina
Conference of the AAUP will convene to focus on ways that faculty,
graduate workers, and allies can build common ground. We must defend
our security and that of our students and communities while also
raising awareness of universities and higher education as an essential
public good. We will hear from and work with organizers and advocates
from across the state, and together plan activities for the April 17
National Day of Action for Higher Education and beyond.

Lunch and a light breakfast will be catered. **The NC AAUP can provide
a limited number of hotel rooms for people attending from beyond the
Triangle/Triad. Please ask us about this.**

Contact: <jaysmith711@gmail.com> or <dambaras@gmail.com>

### Don’t just mourn, organize!
