---
title: February 23, 2026 Weekly Update
---


### TODAY: Chapter Liaisons Meeting, 2:30-3:30pm

Chapter liaisons are meeting at Tru Deli, which is just across
Franklin Street from campus at 114 Henderson Street. If you cannot
join us in person, please let Erik Gellman know and he'll set up Zoom
on a laptop so you can participate.

If you are interested in serving as a liaison for your department or
unit, please email Erik at <esgellman@gmail.com>.

### TODAY: NC AAUP All-Conference Meeting, 6-7pm (remote)

Vote on changing our bylaws to allow for electronic voting and decide
which action you’d prefer to take for our conference campaign: No ICE,
No Spies, No Cuts, No Lies, FIGHT for freedom to teach &
learn. [Register.](https://us06web.zoom.us/meeting/register/mOHiyQGXSYet0wpycLyi8A#/registration)

### THURSDAY: Academic Freedom Policy vote by UNC System Board of Governors

The UNC System Board of Governors will vote to ratify the new,
restrictive academic freedom policy at their meeting this Thursday,
February 26th. You can [read more about the revised policy](https://www.aaupnc.org/#h.lqtek5gcr45c).

[Sign our
petition.](https://actionnetwork.org/petitions/protect-academic-freedom-vote-no-to-revising-the-code?source=website)
Most of our 1,000+ signatories are faculty – now it’s time to get the
wider community involved. Share with anyone who cares about the UNCs!

NC AAUP will deliver the petition starting at 8:30am in Raleigh on
Thursday. We need at least 10 UNC-CH members to make our presence
known alongside NCSU, ECU, and NCCU colleagues –
[register](https://forms.gle/K5sdZEUWZuvrMpWT7).

### Know Your Rights on Campus and Beyond: Monday, March 2, 5-6pm

The ACLU of North Carolina's legal team is giving an hour-long Zoom
presentation on [Knowing Your Rights on
Campus](https://aaupnc.us3.list-manage.com/track/click?u=32fd5f36f4ca8227fe6e951ee&id=8d16e8d979&e=bd097edd2e)
for NC AAUP faculty and students. It’s one of several events we’ll be
hosting over the next few months, as we ask our members to take action
to defend vulnerable faculty, students, and staff at our colleges,
universities, and communities.

This will be a practical overview that on understanding your rights
when interacting with immigration enforcement — regardless of your
immigration status. This Zoom presentation will not provide specific
legal advice, but will provide an overview of what your rights are if
approached by immigration enforcement and also provides crucial advice
for bystanders in ICE/BP
interactions. [Register.](https://us06web.zoom.us/meeting/register/avdJDMJfQ4yFIgN6aNxvZA#/registration)

### All-Member Chapter Meeting: Wednesday, March 11, 3:30-5pm (remote)

Save the date for an all-member UNC-CH AAUP meeting on Wednesday,
March 11, 3:30-5pm. The meeting will be remote. Please make every
effort to attend. Come here updates, learn how to get involved, and
have your voice be heard!

### Resolution to Keep ICE Off Campus and Protect Immigrants

The NC AAUP has passed a
[resolution](https://www.aaupnc.org/statements/resolutions) for Campus
Engagement with Federal Immigration Authorities and Protection of
Privacy Rights.

If you would like to help revise this resolution for our campus so
that it can be presented to Faculty Council, please contact Don Nonini
at <dnonini@gmail.com>.

### Help with Our Chapter's Elections

We are looking for a few volunteers to run our chapter elections,
slated for April. Election committee members are responsible for
soliciting nominations for officer terms beginning in June and running
the election. If you do not plan to run for office and would like to
be involved, please email Rosie Miesner: <rose.miesner@gmail.com>
