---
title: May 4, 2026 Weekly Update
---

### End of Year Chapter Gathering

#### This Thursday, May 7, 4–7pm

Haw River Tap Room  
300 East Main St, Unit C, Carrboro, NC 27510  
(between Cat's Cradle & Amante Pizza)

Please make every effort to join us for (or at least stop by) our
year-end gathering. No one is expected to stay the entire time,
although of course all are welcome to. Families are welcome including
kids, and our VP Erik Gellman has generously offered to buy everyone a
drink! (Haw River has delicious non-alcoholic beverages, too.)

It's been a tumultuous year and a transformative one for our chapter.
We'll (very briefly) review our work together and have an open-ended
discussion about how we can build on the organizing we've done this
year, how we can welcome more colleagues to join us, and how we can be
accountable to and inclusive of all our members.

Please join your fellow members for an all-too-rare opportunity to
gather in person as a chapter.

### SCiLL Report Lawsuit

The vote was 64–1 in favor of filing suit. Thanks to all members who
voted.

We met again this morning with the Duke First Amendment Clinic, who is
representing us pro bono. We will follow up with more details soon.
(The wheel of justice turns slowly..)

**If you are willing to get involved in this chapter campaign, by for
example offering an anonymous statement for the initial complaint,**
please email Michael Palm at <mwpalm@gmail.com> or Erik Gellman at
<esgellman@gmail.com>. (The survey was anonymized, so if you indicated
this on the survey, please email one of us.)

### UNC System Working Group Meeting

#### Wednesday, May 13, 2:30pm (via Zoom)

The UNC System Policy Working Group meets via Zoom on Wednesdays at
2:30pm. Our next meeting will be on May 13. For more information or to
join the group, please contact David Ambaras at <dambaras@gmail.com>.

This group is the best way for AAUP to continue to take the lead in
advocating for UNC faculty rights, now by addressing the new
requirement that syllabuses uploaded to the public database must
include a "statement affirming that the course engages diverse
scholarly perspectives," and also to address the proposed integration
of the syllabus repository into Canvas, which is "under consideration"
by the "Syllabus Repository Taskforce."

### May 15–17: Scholars at Risk Event at the National Humanities Center (RTP)

Our chapter has been invited to participate in an event hosted by the
[Scholars at Risk network](https://www.scholarsatrisk.org/) focused on
defending academic freedom. If you are interested in attending (or just
curious), please contact Michael Palm at <mwpalm@gmail.com>.

### Get Involved

If you are interested in serving as a liaison for your department or
unit, please email Erik Gellman at <esgellman@gmail.com>.

If you would like to help with these updates or with our chapter's
website and social media, email Michael Palm at <mwpalm@gmail.com>.

[NC AAUP](https://www.aaupnc.org/) is the fastest-growing non-union
AAUP chapter in the country. Encourage colleagues to join
[here](https://www.aaup.org/join).
